---
layout: post
title:  "Amusing ourselves to death: An After Thought"
date:   2022-05-15 +0800
categories: book thought
---

Author: Neil Postman
Status: Finished

# An After Thought

It blew my mind that the world we live in is even worse than what Neil Postman had described in his book. In his book, the basic inquiry of knowledge and truth is based on TV and now it is based on the Internet. Both of which had a common epistemology, that is, the presentation of ideas and knowledge is a combination of text and pictures. Note that Neil argued that text and pictures has no correlation to each other as they will not create a discourse. Think about a person describing a particular peacock by pure speech, you won’t be bothered to know why it is relevant to you, nor you can picture a peacock through his words. If a picture is shown to you, you thought you understand what the person is saying after all. Did you gain knowledge? Seemingly yes, but you will forget it after a while because it doesn’t matter to you anyways. The incoherence, impotence and irrelevance was than magnified on TV and is refined on the Internet. We embrace short, easy intuitions, non-sensical gibberish. We would want to extract the technology of TV and Internet to make learning more fun.

This however, did not make ourselves become a more logical, organized and wiser man; Instead, we were so hyped and thrilled by the flashing screens and interactions that we would forget 75% of the content. Nothing has learned. What was worse, this entertainment program had already deeply influenced serious topics such as the president election, podcasts and education programs. Perhaps no one could remember what Joe Biden promised to do in his election speech but one would sharply recall how Joe Biden tripped himself three time on the aircraft.

I once thought, the world I am living in is too late to revert back to the typographic era, where books and articles are the dominant medium for discussion and speech. It was 400 years ago, that was impossible for us to go back. The book had disclosed a grim future that it was quite unlikely that the society will be logical, organized and it would have a Huxleyan world — a world that people don’t need books because they don’t need it anymore, they would indulge themselves into mindless entertainment. I was rather skeptical, and he too, despite making his great efforts to propose the one, and only one solution — to teach everyone what type of programs on TV people should watch, and what type of programs people shouldn’t watch. At the time of writing, Internet is not here yet. Still, it is similar. The solution didn’t mean we ought to follow a policy of political correctness, censorship; no. The point is to educate the people what programs are “junk” programs and why those programs are “junk”. Many years had passed and it seemed schools are not keen to educate those kids of our future. In response to Neil’s solution, I think a better yet still quite hard to achieve is to let his book be in the public domain and make a discussion in the Internet forums. At least, his book is comprehensive to answer the why and how questions than any moderate teachers would like to present to their kids. I had to admit once it is raised in Internet discussion, the seriousness would dissipate in the long run, but it could be an alarming clock for people who work on the Internet — streamers, bloggers, programmers; have a deep thought about their content, and hopefully create videos, blogs, programs, that have more substance in it.

It blew my mind that the world we live in is even worse than what Neil Postman had described in his book. In his book, the basic inquiry of knowledge and truth is based on TV and now it is based on the Internet. Both of which had a common epistemology, that is, the presentation of ideas and knowledge is a combination of text and pictures. Note that Neil argued that text and pictures do not correlate with each other as they will not create a discourse. Think about a person describing a particular peacock by pure speech, you won’t be bothered to know why it is relevant to you, nor you can picture a peacock through his words. If a picture is shown to you, you thought you understand what the person is saying after all. Did you gain knowledge? Seemingly yes, but you will forget it after a while because it doesn’t matter to you anyways. The incoherence, impotence, and irrelevance were then magnified on TV and refined on the Internet. We embrace short, easy intuitions, and non-sensical gibberish. We would want to extract the technology of TV and the Internet to make learning more fun.
This, however, did not make us more logical, organized, and wiser men; Instead, we were so hyped and thrilled by the flashing screens and interactions that we would forget 75% of the content. Nothing has been learned. What was worse, this entertainment program had already deeply influenced serious topics such as the presidential election, podcasts, and education programs. Perhaps no one could remember what Joe Biden promised to do in his election speech but one would sharply recall how Joe Biden tripped himself three times on the aircraft.
I once thought, that the world I am living in is too late to revert to the typographic era, where books and articles are the dominant media for discussion and speech. It was 400 years ago, and that was impossible for us to go back. The book had disclosed a grim future that it was quite unlikely that the society will be logical and organized and it would have a Huxleyan world — a world that which people don’t need books because they don’t need them anymore, they would indulge themselves into mindless entertainment. I was rather skeptical, and he too, despite making his great efforts to propose the one, and only one solution — to teach everyone what type of programs on TV people should watch, and what type of programs people shouldn’t watch. At the time of writing, the Internet is not here yet. Still, it is similar. The solution didn’t mean we ought to follow a policy of political correctness, and censorship; no. The point is to educate the people on what programs are “junk” programs and why those programs are “junk”. Many years had passed and it seemed schools are not keen to educate those kids about our future. In response to Neil’s solution, I think a better yet still quite hard to achieve is to let his book be in the public domain and make a discussion in the Internet forums. At least, his book is comprehensive to answer the why and how questions that any moderate teachers would like to present to their kids. I had to admit once it is raised in Internet discussion, the seriousness would dissipate in the long run, but it could be an alarming clock for people who work on the Internet — streamers, bloggers, and programmers; to have a deep thought about their content, and hopefully create videos, blogs, programs, that have more substance in it.